Call Report - MSC N6 Skinner

The following information contains notes taken by Brian Fitzpatrick after a meeting with the client, Justin Skinner


Results/Findings:
•	Conducted and office call with MSC N6, Mr. Justin Skinner at MSC HQ in Norfolk, VA
•	Mr. Skinner indicated they want to modernize with the next contract.
•	Pain Points include:
o	Use of a cumbersome data lake
o	Applications are not talking to each other
o	Need to automate processes
o	Need to develop a shrinking workforce which sidelined 17 ships
o	Need to connect ashore to afloat
o	They want to get out of AWS and move to Navy AZURE to leverage FlankSpeed

Summary: 

They want to move to the next evolution of IBS: 
Full app integration
Data Sharing
Process automation of all business systems.


There is not single digital thread for workflows: They pull data from one system, put into CMLS, then to Contracting then ERP.
Lots of touch points.  He wants to avoid re-entering data to affect transactions.

I asked him where they are not fully automated and integrated now?

Mr. Skinner detailed how they developed these systems over time.  The systems do one job really well and meet the mission but the systems are stove-piped.

They are using a data lake and Tableau.
For HR, they are using a new system designed by ABS called Wave Sight.

MSC is using the American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) Wave Sight system for their back-end HR system.  
https://www.abswavesight.com/en/company

They are very happy with ABS.  ABS sets the international maritime standards.  Any modification to a ship needs to meet ABS standards.  (Our solution MUST integrate ABS.  IBM has a relationship with ABS as ABS uses MAXIMO).

ABS is connected to the nautical unions, handles licensing.  ABS developed an application for Mariners to manage their careers as they move from job to job, ship to ship, company to company.

ABS is a Maximo partner worldwide.  

They need help with maintenance management.  

We need to leverage our Maximo bone fides in the POV.
https://www.abs-group.com/Solutions/Software-Solutions/IBM-Maximo/

 ABS Group
IBM Maximo
ABS Consulting is a global Enterprise Asset Management implementation services provider for IBM Maximo and a fully authorized IBM Gold Business partner.

https://www.abswavesight.com/en?gad_source=1&gbraid=0AAAAA-n39qWS2FHk-SvB5HjB_ANHg6-_y

MSC has labeled the ABS application as myMSC but the backend is all ABS Wavesight.  
They will extend this to ships at sea.  This is only ashore presently.



I posited a potential value proposition: By introducing process automation, MSC can recapitalize for workforce development.  MSC has had to sideline 17 ships.  They are in desperate need of workforce development and recruiting.

https://www.stripes.com/branches/navy/2024-11-21/military-sealift-command-open-jobs-sidelined-ships-15926756.html#:~:text=WASHINGTON%20—%20The%20Military%20Sealift%20Command,command%20to%20sideline%2017%20ships.


As is – data is dumped into a DAE data lake but it is a real “pain in the ass” to use.

The missing piece for IBS is data to run reports.  They are not feeding data back into the system.  
They have no process automation.
Maintenance system fields do not match logistics systems fields

They have 5-6K mariners.  They need a better way to automate and process the SFO forms.  
E.g. A mariner can work different jobs on one ship for one cruise. They will accrue multiple pay codes
All of these must be changed an updated on an SFO.  This is done manually.  It is a mundane process.

Mr. Skinner said he was going to TRANSCOM in the last week of Jan to look at Project MAVEN.


I asked about data connectivity to private and public shipyards.

Private shipyards are using CMLS and maintenance.  As Is – business apps are in AWS.  However, the NOCs are moving to the cloud, NAVY AZURE.
MSC wants to take advantage of FLANKSPEED and move into AZURE.
PEO Digital is looking at FLANKSPEED Edge and MSC wants to leverage that to push the business applications afloat.


Due out:
•	Engage – Set a follow-up call with Tom Knowlton and Justin Skinner for second week of Feb 25 to show a POV.
•	Engage – Contact the contracting team.
•	Engage – 
